# fprshearcap

This study aims to predict the shear capacity of steel fiber reinforced concrete beams with longitudinal reinforcement but without shear reinforcement (SFRCWL). Shear failure is critical in this kind of structural element. On the other hand, there is no predictive model that can accurately predict the shear capacity of steel fiber reinforced concrete beams with longitudinal reinforcing bars without stirrups. Hence, this study wants to utilize deep learning to predict the shear capacity of SFRCWL using the experimental data in the literature. In this study, 488 experimental data instances from gathered from 60 journal articles and reported in [1] are used to train and test a deep neural network (DNN). 
The DNN model composed of an input layer with 13 nodes, one output layer, and two hidden layers with 64 nodes is developed using Tensorflow machine learning platform. The input variables correspond to the geometry properties of the beam specimen, concrete mixture properties, and the properties of the steel fibers, while the target variable is the experimental shear capacity.
Regarding the training process of the DNN, mean squared error (MSE) is chosen as the loss function, and the maximum number of epochs is assigned to be 500. 70% of the data instances are selected to be the train set, and the remaining data instances are used for testing the trained model. 20% of the train set is used to validate the model during the training process. The coefficient of determination (R2) for the test and training sets are more than 85% which shows that the trained model can accurately predict the shear capacity of SFRCWL.
References:
[1] E.O.J.M. Lantsoght, Database of shear experiments on steel fiber reinforced concrete beams without stirrups, 12 (2019) 917.

